initial benchmarks (#3)
Lawrencium77/quant_blog: Fast and Flexible GPU Quantization for Transformers.md

#### Column Turing (CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL4_4R2_8C)
![](_attachments/Pasted%20image%2020230329113436.png)

#### Column Ampere (CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL32_2R_4R4)
![](_attachments/Pasted%20image%2020230329113458.png)

While `COL32` might be the most performant option, there exists a tension whereby the cost of the layout conversion may cancel out any gains from the reduced precision matmul. Therefore we must either make a design decision à la FasterTransformer and persist the data in the required format, or hide the cost via kernel fusion. The latter approach is similar to how quantize/dequantize overhead is typically hidden, which we will discuss next.

### INT8 GEMM Benchmarking

> We now look at some peformance numbers for the various flavours of INT8 GEMM. For these benchmarks we wrap the C++ APIs for cuBLASLt and CUTLASS as PyTorch extensions. A detailed guide to timing CUDA kernels with PyTorch can be found [here](https://www.speechmatics.com/company/articles-and-news/timing-operations-in-pytorch). Benchmarks were run on a T4 GPU with an input tensors of shape [2048, 1920] and [1920, 1920]. Whilst mileage may vary for different input shapes, we found the following conclusions to be consistent over a variety of shapes/sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now look at peformance numbers for the various flavours of INT8 GEMM. For these benchmarks we wrap the C++ APIs for cuBLASLt and CUTLASS as PyTorch extensions. A detailed guide to timing CUDA kernels with PyTorch can be found [here](https://www.speechmatics.com/company/articles-and-news/timing-operations-in-pytorch). Benchmarks were run on a T4 GPU with input tensors of shape [2048, 1920] and [1920, 1920]. While mileage may vary for different input shapes, we found the following conclusions to be consistent over a variety of shapes/sizes.
```

> ####  INT8 vs. INT32 output precision

Reviewer: ```suggestion
####  INT8 vs INT32 output precision
```

$$D=\alpha AB+\beta C$$

> One important factor which detemines the performance of an INT8 GEMM (formula above) is the required output type. The matrix multiplication will always have INT dtype for matrices A and B, which then accumulate the outputs into INT32 within the kernel,  but we need to decide whether output matrix C should be INT8 or INT32. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One important factor which determines INT8 GEMM performance (formula above) is the required output type. The matrix multiplication will always have INT dtype for matrices A and B, which then accumulate the outputs into INT32 within the kernel,  but we need to decide whether output C should be INT8 or INT32. 
```

> INT32 return type will be slower as four times as much data is written out (and read into the next kernel). We will also have to dequantize after the matmul to return to FP16. In comparison INT8 return type is faster, but there is a trade-off as accuracy will be impacted as we need to re-quantize the output from INT32 to INT8 within the kernel. More information on this can be found {earlier in the blog}. If the next operation requires FP16 input we will also have to dequantize, however if we require INT8 for the next kernel an INT8 output type can be ideal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INT32 return type will be slower as four times as much data is written out (and read into the next kernel). We will also have to dequantize after the matmul to return to FP16. In comparison, INT8 return type is faster but there is a trade-off: accuracy will be made worse, as we need to requantize the output from INT32 to INT8 within the kernel. More information on this can be found {earlier in the blog}. If the next operation requires FP16 input we will also have to dequantize. However, if we require INT8 for the next kernel an INT8 output type can be ideal.
```

> In summary the decision is very much dependant on the accuracy/performance trade-off, as well as the specifics of the model architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, the decision is very much dependent on the accuracy/performance trade-off, as well as the specifics of the model architecture.
```

|       Kernel       | Time (ms) | vs. FP16 |
|:------------------:|:---------:|:--------:|
| f16f16f16 (Torch)  |    600    |   1.0x   |
| i8i8i32 (cuBLASLt) |    364    |   1.65x  |
| i8i8i8 (cuBLASLt) |    308    |   1.95x  |

#### FP16 output precision

> We previously touched upon the fact that I32 return type requires dequantizing outside of the matmul. Performance could be improved by fusing the dequant with the matmul and returning FP16 outputs. We can get this behaviour for free by using the GEMM `α` parameter to dequantize the outputs (the same way that we requantize for INT8 outputs), but this only works if we are applying **per-tensor** quantization, where the dequantize parameter is a single scalar {refer to per-scalar/per-channel section for more detail}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We previously touched upon the fact that INT32 return type requires dequantizing outside of the matmul. Performance could be improved by fusing the dequant with the matmul and returning FP16 outputs. We can get this behaviour for free by using the GEMM `α` parameter to dequantize the outputs (the same way that we requantize for INT8 outputs), but this only works if we are applying **per-tensor** quantization, where the dequantization parameter is a single scalar {refer to per-scalar/per-channel section for more detail}.
```

What if we require **per-channel** quantization i.e. using a vector to dequantize? In this scenario CUTLASS comes to the rescue by allowing the definition of a custom epilogue function, which is applied after the matrix multiplication, in a single fused kernel. For this scenario the GEMM + epilogue definition is expanded to 

$$D=f_2(f_1(\alpha AB+\beta C, d)) $$

> The epilogue format comes from `EpilogueWithBroadcast` which applies a [binary operation](https://github.com/NVIDIA/cutlass/blob/master/include/cutlass/epilogue/thread/linear_combination_bias_elementwise.h#L215)`f1` between the matmul output and a column-wise broadcasted vector `d`, followed by an optional elementwise op `f2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The epilogue format comes from `EpilogueWithBroadcast` which applies a [binary operation](https://github.com/NVIDIA/cutlass/blob/master/include/cutlass/epilogue/thread/linear_combination_bias_elementwise.h#L215)`f1` between the matmul output and a column-wise broadcast vector `d`, followed by an optional elementwise op `f2`.
```

> This might typically be a bias addition followed by an activation function (e.g. relu), but in our case we want `f1` to be a multiplication with the dequantize scalar. The epilogue is then plugged into `gemm::device::GemmUniversalWithBroadcast`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This might typically be a bias addition followed by an activation function (e.g. ReLU), but in our case we want `f1` to be a multiplication with the dequantization scalar. The epilogue is then plugged into `gemm::device::GemmUniversalWithBroadcast`.
```

|       Kernel       | Time (ms) | vs. FP16 |
|:------------------:|:---------:|:--------:|
| f16f16f16 (Torch)  |    600    |   1.0x   |
| i8i8i32 (CUTLASS) |    364    |   1.65x  |
| i8i8f16 (CUTLASS) |    308    |   1.95x  |

> Whilst there might not be a huge improvement from FP16 output in terms of GEMM throughput, there are other peformance benefits:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While there might not be a huge improvement from FP16 output in terms of GEMM throughput, there are other peformance benefits:
```

- 50% less data loaded in the next kernel (now FP16 instead of INT32)
- Avoid fusion of the dequantize operator with the next kernel

> - Avoid loading the dequantization vector in the next kernel (which CUTLASS pipelines the loading of)

Author: ```suggestion
- Avoid loading the dequantization vector in the next kernel (which CUTLASS pipelines the loading of TODO improve this sentence)
```

> - Avoid having to load the dequantize vector in the next kernel (which CUTLASS pipelines the loading of)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid loading the dequantization vector in the next kernel (which CUTLASS pipelines the loading of)
```

> - Avoid having to load the dequantize vector in the next kernel (which CUTLASS pipelines the loading of)

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the phrase "which CUTLASS pipelines the loading of". Not sure it reads quite right

Author: Had similar thoughts, any suggestions?

Author: Have added a placeholder to change this

#### Memory layout

> Lastly we look at the effect of the afforementioned layout in memory on the matmul performance 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly we examine the effect of the aforementioned layout in memory on the matmul performance 
```
